## Pronouns Good or Bad: Attitudes and Relationships with Gendered Pronouns in Gender-Diverse Undergraduate
This is my undergraduate thesis that I wrote while at Reed College.
You can read the [PDF](https://github.com/overwatchcorp/thesis/blob/master/index/_book/thesis.pdf) version, or [gitbook](https://fungj.net/thesis) version.
As is with many Reed quantitative theses, this was written in the Reed thesis template: [ismayc/thesisdown](https://github.com/ismayc/thesisdown).

## Abstract
Gendered third-person pronouns such as "she" are used to refer to people in a manner that is congruent with their gender. For many cisgender people, this is an unquestioned truth. However, for transgender and non-binary people, correct use of one's gendered pronouns can be as important as one's chosen name. Transgender literature has not yet examined relationships with gendered pronouns in detail. In this study, we developed a survey about relationships with and attitudes towards gendered pronouns. Additionally, two previously validated measures of gender congruence and active support of transgender people were included in the survey. This was administered to undergraduates at Reed College, where a significant proportion of the student body is gender non-confirming, transgender, and non-binary. The sample also includes cisgender people. We found that pronouns are a poor signifier of gender, and that people of all genders use many different combinations of pronouns. Furthermore, we found that relationships to pronouns is complicated and multivariate. Using primary component analysis, we found that a significant proportion of the data can be explained by how deeply one is affected by cisnormativity—the systematic privileging of cisgender people. Ultimately, relationships to pronouns are complicated and deeply individual. We also found that cis people generally lag behind trans and non-binary people in supporting trans people. One concrete way that cis people can support their trans peers is by initiating the sharing of pronouns.
